---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
This week while I was looking at various projects, I decided to pick up the DB2 and DB3 server migrations along with Alister. For DB2, the objective was simple; create a slot in replcaement solution for the Databases 2 class that won't require us to rewrite the paper to accomodate it. As the Polytech were planning to decomission the MariaDB server next semester, we had to get it deployed and running this semester. We decided that the DB3 server can be worked on next semester and hopefully we can get DB2 sorted before the end of the term.

Admittedly, I was quickly overwhelmed to begin with as I had little idea on how to start with things. Alister helped me along in understanding everything. It took a bit of time to figure things out but we managed to catch me up to speed. From how I saw it, we had a server that ran MariaDB that students connected to via SSH. They will use the mysql terminal to execute their commands from the server. PhpMyAdmin will be used to administrate the server for both Rob and Krissi. While Krissi and Rob will have their own accounts, there will also be another account that will be used to execute commands with sudo privleges.

After I've looked through the previous semester's documentation, Alister and I met with Rob to discuss the requirements and the deliverables. We were asked to create a formal proposal to give to Rob to have a plan on how to create the server. Judging from the previous semester's work, it was clear that our solutions were either performing a "Lift and Shift" where we pretty much replicate the same environment as the current server so everything can fit in seamlessly or using a SaaS solution provided by Microsoft Azure. We decided upon a fairly small "burstable" virtual machine fiting with somewhat higher specs to allow for expandability and to perform a lift and shift upon it.

We also decided upon using a 100GB data disk where all of the databases were going to be stored. It was perhaps a bit excessive but worst case scenario, storage was fairly reasonable and we can always shrink if required.

When we took it to Rob, he suggested we look into the SaaS solution which was MariaDB for Azure since the less he had to maintain, the more time he spend on other more important things which is fully understandable. When we did look into it, there were two big problems. The first was that we'd need someplace to host phpMyAdmin. Since phpMyAdmin is a web app, we'd either have to create a new VM to host the frontend for administrative purposes or run a completely different tool to connect to it. The second problem is how students will have to connect to the server. As our machines at the Polytech do not have the mysql terminal installed on any of them and that'd require teaching them how to use that instead. Regardless, both of these violate our requirements and it'd be much easier to simply perform a lift and shift. Mentioning this with Rob, he approved our proposal for the server.