---
layout: post
title: Week 9-12
---
# Week 9
After talking to Faisal, he wanted me to ask Mason (our security expert on the team) to look into the security of the server. Which I talked to him and and asked for an audit of everything. He didn't take too long to discover that I made a mistake and forgot to start up MariaDB when restarting. Thankfully, after Mason relooked into it, he was pretty happy with how things were. There was an issue with the Apache directories not being protected well enough as he could get into certain directories unintentionally. But that was quickly resolved by restricting those areas and only allowing the users to access the main website.

This was also the week I went ahead of fixed all the issues Rob had pointed out. HTTP was now being redirected to HTTPs (although the solution felt a little janky but it worked fine). I was also advised by Faisal to start creating our back up solution as that was something that had completely skipped my mind up until that point. Thankfully, backing up the OS disk for the virtual machine was quite easy but to back up the data disk was a bit more problematic.

Weirdly, Azure has two different methods of backing up disks and they corrospond to what kind of disk. Turned out, we didn't have access to the method that allowed us to back up the data disk. This was something I had to go back and forth between Faisal and I but I poorly explained it to him. So, I had to create an entirely different backup solution that didn't depend on that which involved replicating a similar solution to what the current MariaDB server had.

# Week 10
This week, I decided upon writing up the documentation as I had fallen behind on it quite a bit. The problem was now that I reflect upon it was that I wanted to create an installation guide that allowed someone to essentially create the entire system from scratch without many assumptions on the creator's part. What ended up was a very verbose document that took up far too much of my time that continued onward. It couldn't even be a complete document as there was still the backup solution that was aforementioned that needed to be added. There was a lot of intricate parts to this server that now I thought about was very difficult to keep it all together. Regardless, at this point the server is fully functional and all we had to do was all the background details and automation.

# Week 11
I was less focused on the DB2 server this week as I had to deal with other issues outside of it that required my attention. But I was mostly chipping away at the documentation and started to work on figuring out how I could create the security server. Looking through the documentation for Azure, there wasn't really a great method to clone virtual machines entirely but thankfully, you could create an image out of a snap shot through some kind of awkward methods. It wasn't entirely well explained but eventually, that was all sorted.

# Week 12
This week, Faisal wanted me to integrate the virtual machine into more of Azure. Admittedly, the automation in place already wasn't the standard tools to use with Azure as from my experience, I use tools that work on any platform but of course don't integrate into any service. `unattended-upgrades` is very good to keep security updates patched onto the server but isn't going to give reports out to Azure.

This was also the week that I decided to make the bash scripts used to add students a bit more easier. How I made them easier to use was that the student enrolement script no longer required the sql file to load in users as I noticed that it made adding new students very tedious. Instead, you only needed to input a .csv file of the users and the databases they were required to be able to view. I also added new help outputs to assist with using every script to add an extra layer of polish on top.